---
title: "Maintain Your Startup’s Culture in Hypergrowth"
description:
  "Daniela Amodei told us Anthropic has always had a culture interview, which
  has been important as it's become a rapidly scaling AI company."
---

Daniela Amodei, her brother Dario and a set of other colleagues left OpenAI in
2020 because they wanted to build an artificial intelligence company that
developed what they considered to be a safer, more trustworthy model. That is,
culture was never going to be a nice to have at what became Anthropic, it was
going to be essential.

That’s why Daniela, whose experience included leading recruiting and talent
efforts at OpenAI and Stripe before that, implemented a culture fit interview
from the beginning.

Anthropic now finds itself in the middle of AI fervor — it has raised over $7
billion in the last year. Following her onstage appearance at our inaugural
Inflection event for founders in November, Daniela told us that culture
screening is as important as ever in this period of hypergrowth.

Anthropic has its purpose and values clearly articulated on its site, and the
culture fit interview accompanies technical ones because the company wants its
team on the same page (while allowing for disagreement and evolution along the
way). The future of AI is a controversial subject with multiple schools of
thought, but Daniela believes that startups across all industries would benefit
from clarity of values from the beginning and ensure that they’re fundamentally
maintained, whether they have five employees or hundreds.

## Transcript

I would say during periods of hyperscale, one of the most important things you
can do is really nail down for yourself what is your culture, right? Culture
feels very ephemeral. It feels like something that you know it when you see it.

But as much as you possibly can, as early as you can, really write down what are
your values, what are your cultural values, but also what do they look like in
practice, right?

So sometimes people will say, “Oh, be kind but direct!” One person’s kind is
another person’s direct. And so the more tangible you can make them, the more
you can use examples, you should really expect people to be able to walk out of
a room and say, “I’m going to do X differently because of cultural value Y.”

Make sure that you really take those values and put them into your interview
loop, otherwise it can be a lot of vibes, right? “I like this person! They’re
sort of like me, maybe we should hire them!” Much better to say we really,
really value the following qualities and we’re going to assess for them in the
following ways, and then be as objective about that as possible.

Anthropic’s had a culture interview since day one, and I think that’s been
really helpful both for communicating to candidates who we are and also for
making sure that we understand the most important points about how they’ll work
with others at Anthropic.
